## Search and Rescue

This repository contains the source code and documentation for the CG2111A module.

## Overview
Alex is a robotic vehicle that is tasked to perform search-and-rescue missions. In this prototype phase, Alex will be placed in a simulated environment where it is easier to navigate and detect victims. It is tasked to navigate a room filled with various man-made obstacles such as boxes, map out its surrounding environment, and identify victims. In this test, victims are either “green” – healthy but trapped, or “red” – injured and trapped. Moreover, Alex must be teleoperated so that operators are not in contact with the disaster site. The goal for the teleoperator is to locate two victims and correctly identify their statuses, map out the disaster site, and park Alex in a designated spot – all within a 6-minute window, with minimal collisions.

To this end, Alex is designed with the following specifications and functionalities. A Raspberry Pi is installed on Alex to allow for communication between the operator’s laptop and the Arduino controlling its components. The LiDAR sensor, in conjunction with Hector SLAM, allows Alex to detect obstacles and objects while simultaneously identifying its position on the map. To differentiate victims, healthy or injured, from obstacles, a colour sensor is installed on Alex. If the detected colour is not red or green, Alex will identify the object as an obstacle instead of a victim. Additionally, ultrasonic sensors are placed at the front, left and right sides on Alex to detect and avoid nearby obstacles. Alex also features a loud buzzer, used to alert the teleoperator and nearby pedestrians when a victim has been detected.
